#summary URI dereferencing: implementation status
#labels org.mmisw.ont

This page describes the level of compliance of the current implementation according to the dereferencing specification MMI's [http://marinemetadata.org/community/teams/ont/generaldocuments/onturideref|Ontology URI Dereferencing].


= Status of current implementation =

== Handling of the accept header ==
   * Done, except that the dominance of a particular content-type is simply determined by choosing the first content-type submitted by the client.

== Handling of the file extension ==
   * .owl: done
   * .rdf: done
   * .html: done but can be improved. Anchors are generated so a URI like xxxx.html#someTerm is handled as usual by standard browsers.
   * .n3: done
   * .pdf: Not implemented (a 404 error is returned)

== Handling of the "form" parameter ==
   * Done. If given, this parameter takes precedence over the file extension.


== Terms ==
   * Terms are temporarily resolved in HTML format: http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter/water_vapor_pressure


== More examples ==

   * http://mmisw.org/ont/gcmd/parameter.html#EARTH_SCIENCE--BIOSPHERE--PLANT_TAXONOMY--ALGAE
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/gcmd/parameter/EARTH_SCIENCE--BIOSPHERE--PLANT_TAXONOMY--ALGAE
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter.owl
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter.rdf
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter.html
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter.n3


= Other features =

== Integration with OR ==

=== Metadata display ===
Parameter "_md" can be used to generate a metadata report. This is used by the RoR front-end. Example: 
   http://mmisw.org/ont/gcmd/parameter?_md
For convenience, a complete page can be generated with the "completepage" value: 
   http://mmisw.org/ont/gcmd/parameter?_md=completepage

== SPARQL support ==

See examples in http://mmisw.org/ont/sparql.html
   * CONSTRUCT and SELECT queries supported
   * In general, this is dispatched via the "sparql" parameter. For convenience, a default CONSTRUCT query is performed if no value is associated: http://mmisw.org/ont/?sparql
   * Experimental HTML output using an internal XSLT transformation is performed if the "xslt" parameter is included, for example http://mmisw.org/ont/?xslt&sparql 


== Debugging ==

Parameter `_debug` (formerly, "info") can be used for debugging purposes:
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter?_debug
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/parameter.html/someterm?_debug
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/mmi/20081021/topic/term?_debug
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/cf/unexistent/someterm?_debug
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/invalidMMIUri?_debug
   * http://mmisw.org/ont/mmi/invalidversion/topic/term?_debug

In general, log information is generated in CATALINA/logs/ont.log